explain file structure, add instructions for adding PAT as GH secret (#318)
carpentries/lesson-example: _episodes_rmd/05-rmarkdown-example.Rmd

This episode demonstrates all the features that can be used when writing a
lesson in [RMarkdown][r-markdown].

When rendering a lesson written in RMarkdown, the lesson template does two
things:

1. It identifies the dependencies (the R packages) that your lesson uses and
   installs them in your library.
2. It converts the RMarkdown files (the files in the `.Rmd` extension in the
   `_episodes_rmd` folder) into Markdown files in the `_episodes` folder.

> Depending on whether it uses the remote theme (all the lessons in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on whether it uses the remote theme (most lessons in the
```

Not all lessons in the Incubator have adopted the remote theme yet

```

The rest of the lesson should be written as a normal RMarkdown file. You can

> include chunk for codes, just like you would normally do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include chunks of code, just like you would normally do.
```

Reviewer: Although we don't want to try to write a complete introduction to RMarkdown in this episode, I think this section would still benefit from a bit more explanation about the output being generated automatically from the code chunks. I've made an attempt at this in #319 so we don't necessarily need to take care of it here.

> {: .solution}
{: .challenge}

## Deployment of R-based lessons

For lessons that do not use R, the code included in the lessons is not
evaluated. Each time a new commit is pushed to the repository, GitHub can take
these files and directly render their content using Jekyll to create the lesson
website. Because it is a one-step process, we can use the same branch
(`gh-pages`) to develop the lesson and render its content as a website. However,
for R-based lessons, we first need to convert the RMarkdown to Markdown, and
then, we need to instruct GitHub to generate the lesson website from them.
Because of this two-step process, we use two branches: one is used to develop
the content of the lesson (typically `main`) and the other is only used to host
the files that will generate the lesson website (`gh-pages`). To convert the
files from RMarkdown to Markdown, and push these Markdown files to GitHub, we

> rely on a specific GitHub Actions (found at `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rely on GitHub Actions (found at `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` in
```

> files from RMarkdown to Markdown, and push these Markdown files to GitHub, we
> rely on a specific GitHub Actions (found at `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` in
> your repository).
> 
> To be able to push content to your repository on your behalf, the GitHub Action
> requires to use a Personal Access Token (PAT). A Personal Access Token is a long
> string of characters that you generate when logged in to your GitHub account. It
> identifies you and acts as a password. When used in GitHub Actions scripts,
> GitHub uses it to do things that you would normally do as a user like pushing
> files to a branch. As its name suggests, it should be kept secret as if others
> knew about it, it would be easy to impersonate you and push content to your
> repository on your behalf. You can store secret information in your repositories
> that are hidden to the world but that GitHub Actions has access to. You will
> need to add this Personal Access Token as a GitHub secret.
> 
> When you are working with the upstream ("official") version of the lesson, the
> Personal Access Token is already set up and you do not have to worry about it.
> As a contributor to the lesson, your changes will become live on the lesson
> website once the maintainer for the lesson merges your changes to the default
> branch.
> 
> If you want to fork the lesson and have a functioning website associated with
> it, you need to (1) create your own Personal Access Token so the GitHub Action
> can push the Markdown files it generates from the RMarkdown files to the
> `gh-pages` branch of your fork; (2) update the deploy GitHub Actions in your
> repository to match the name and URL of your fork.
> 
> To create a Personal Access Token and store it as a secret to your fork:
> 
> 1. When logged in to your GitHub account, go to:
>    <https://github.com/settings/tokens>
> 2. Click on the button "Generate new token"
> 3. In "Note", type a decriptive note for what the token will be used for. For
>    instance, "deploy-my-r-lesson-fork".
> 4. Click the box `public_repo` (for our purpose, that's the only scope you
>    need).
> 5. Click on "Generate Token".
> 6. A new page will appear, with your token at the top. It is the only time you
>    will see the token. Click on the clipboard icon to copy the token. Keep this
>    page open for now.
> 7. Open a new tab in your browser and visit the GitHub page for your fork of the
>    lesson.
> 8. Click on "Settings"
> 9. Click on "Secrets" in the left bar menu.
> 10. Click on the "New repository secret" button
> 11. For the name, use `GH_PAT` (or make sure it matches the name of the secret
>     variable in the `deploy.yml` file).
> 12. In the "Value" text box, paste your Personal Access Token, and click on "Add
>     secret".
> 13. Close the tab that displays your Personal Access Token.
> 
> Finally, you need to edit the `deploy.yml` file to change the value of the
> `github.repository` variable in the step "Deploy site" to match the name of your
> fork.
> 
> After pushing this change to your repository, any subsequent modification to the
> content of the lesson will automatically update the lesson website associated
> with your fork.
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> ## On Branch Names and Automation
> 
> For lessons that do not use R, the code included in the lessons is not
> evaluated. Each time a new commit is pushed to the repository, GitHub can take
> these files and directly render their content using Jekyll to create the lesson
> website. Because it is a one-step process, we can use the same branch
> (`gh-pages`) to develop the lesson and render its content as a website. However,
> for R-based lessons, we first need to convert the RMarkdown to Markdown, and
> then, we need to instruct GitHub to generate the lesson website from the rendered
> Markdown files. Because of this two-step process, we use two branches: one is 
> used to develop the content of the lesson (typically `main`) and the other is only 
> used to host the files that will generate the lesson website (`gh-pages`). To 
> automatically convert the files from RMarkdown to Markdown, and push these 
> Markdown files to GitHub, we rely on a GitHub Actions workflow (typically in the 
> `.github/workflows/website.yml` file in the lesson repository).
{: .callout}

```

Reviewer 2: I suggest to add this as a callout since it's not an absolute need-to-know for our r-based lessons.

Reviewer 2: @fmichonneau or @tobyhodges, let me know if this makese sense and I'll merge it.

Reviewer: This looks good to me
